This repository contains my master thesis pdf and the code I've developed in the process.

Here's the abstract:
<p>
Recommender systems provide assistance when making a decision about a purchase of a product or a service. They are used by major online retailers to aid customers in finding the most suited products to buy. Such recommender systems during their operation collect information about customer preferences and when requested to provide a recommendation try to find out what the best products for the current purchase are. Customers could be asked to rate the products that they have consumed in the past. Those ratings are then used to build the customer preferences model according to which the products to recommend are chosen by the system. In this kind of systems the accuracy of the recommendation essentially depends on two factors: the effectiveness of the recommendation algorithm and the number of product ratings known by the system. The more product ratings are elicited from the customers, the better and more accurate the recommendation is. Specific techniques, which are defined as rating elicitation strategies, can be used to select the items to be presented to the user for rating. In our work we heuristically defined several rating elicitation strategies and we evaluated them with a particular evaluation methodology that exploits an existing dataset of ratings. We discussed the benefits and drawbacks of different strategies with respect to a range of different aspects of a recommender system (e.g. precision, ranking quality or coverage). We have as well taken into account the stage of the ratings database development. The evaluation showed that different strategies can improve different aspects of the recommendation quality or rating prediction accuracy in different stages of rating database development and that the best strategy depends on the metric one wants to optimize.
</p>